
	As we close out the month of November, Americans have two things on their minds, feasting at the Thanksgiving table, and holiday shopping at the local mall. Traditionally, holiday shopping has been kept separate from Thanksgiving Thursday; to such an extent that Black Friday is a holiday in its own right. Recently however, retail outlets like Macy's, Target, Toys-R-Us, and Best Buy, have opted to break tradition, and open shop Thanksgiving night. By opening early, stores hope to capture a larger share of the Black Friday shopping frenzy that malls and outlet stores are notorious for.
	The intuition is simple, there is assumed to be a fixed amount of spending that will occur this Thanksgiving because of Black Friday deals, and for simplicity's sake, each store is assumed to have a homogeneous selection of goods and prices. From the consumers' perspective, there are a limited number of deals available, and each consumer is looking to maximize the number of deals they can take advantage of. Because each customer is treated on a “first come first serve” basis, they have a higher probability of having access to each deal the earlier they arrive to the store. Hence each customer has an incentive to arrive as early as they can. From the firms' perspective, there is a limited amount of disposable income possessed by the holiday shoppers. Knowing the consumers' incentive to shop early, the firms have an incentive to open earlier than everyone else so that they can start absorbing that fixed disposable income without any competition. It is this concept of sales without competition that drives the decision to open earlier than competitors.
	With this incentive structure, it is easy to wonder why retail stores ever restricted their sales to Black Friday in the first place. The answer is simple, there is a cost associated with each hour earlier that the stores open, and stores are only better off if they open earlier than their competitors. Thus it appears that prior to 2013, retail stores were in tacit collusion with one another. By choosing collectively to wait until Friday to open, no store is worse off than the others, and no store pays the cost of additional hours open. Since this particular game is repeated every year, firms have the ability to stay at this collusive, mutually beneficial outcome. However, once one store breaks the agreement and decides to go for the extra share of the holiday spending spree, everything falls apart. This situation is analogous to players playing tit-for-tat strategies in a repeated game. Every store plays “cooperate” until someone decides to “defect”, then every store defects. [A repeated game isn’t sufficient here. What game? What does ‘defect’ mean here. You need at least a simple structure to support the logic. ]
	Once the market has deviated from the collusive outcome, the market enters into a continuous game where each firm chooses how early they want to open. This problem has proven extremely difficult to model with the game theory tools that I currently possess. The following are descriptions of my attempted models and the area's in which they succeed and fail to represent the situation.
	My first thought, was that this game was analogous to a Cournot Duopoly style game in which the quantity sold was a function of the time the firm spends open, and the time competitors spend open. 
This function for Q illustrates the idea that the an increase in time spent open by firm 1 will increase the quantity they sell, holding all else constant. This function also shows that a firm only benefits from opening early if they are earlier than their competitors, and that they are worse off if there competitors open earlier then they do. To solve this duopoly style problem, we need a function for total revenue and total cost, because firm 1's best response occurs where...
The problem we run into is that marginal revenue needs to be a function of both the firms t value, and the competitors t value. In order for that to be the case, we need price as a function of t1 and t2 so that total revenue is a function of the choice variables t1 and t2. Unfortunately, prices are not included in the theory of this game because we don't have a good way to generalize the price of the many different goods and services offered at each store, or model how that price changes as a function of time spent open.
	After failing to build a working model with quantity sold as a function of time, I decided to skip right to the point and model total revenue directly as a function of time instead, eliminating the need for price as a function of a time. My first attempt was to simply take my function for Q from before, and rename it as a function.
	At this point I began to explore alternative methods of modeling the situation that don't rely on the creation of a revenue function.
This stream of consciousness adds little to your paper. It is what I would expect at an early stage in notes for yourself, not within a paper submission. 
The War of Attrition
	The War of Attrition is a game where two or more players are competing for a prize with positive value. Both players are given two options in every round, fight  or quit. If player 1 fights, and player 2 quits, the game ends with player 1 winning the prize and player 2 winning nothing. If both players fight, then the game is repeated in the next round, and neither player wins anything. If both players quit, then neither win, and the game ends. There is a cost associated with fighting, but there is no cost to quitting. The NE in this game is interesting because it is dependent on each players willingness to fight. If a player is not willing to fight to the end, then their best option is to quit in round one and avoid the cost of fighting completely. Likewise, if one player knows their opponent wont fight to the end, then their best option is to always fight.
	This game model correlates well with our Thanksgiving situation if you consider opening early to be fighting, and opening on Friday to be quitting. We can see that just like in the War of Attrition, stores are only better off if they open early, and their competition does not. If all stores open early then they all incur the cost of opening early, but gain nothing compared to where they were before. Insight here is key. Not sure it fits the situation because you don’t arrive at an equilibrium unless someone quits due to higher cost.
	Despite the convenient framework that this game provides for us, it is still far too simplified to capture all the incentives in our real world situation. you will rarely capture all of the incentives. modeling is about providing a structure for discussion of ideas. For example, each firm has an incentive to open earlier than their competitors even if they aren't the very first to open, since they steal market share away from every firm that opens later than themselves. The decision to fight is not a discrete move in the real world like it is in the game model. Stores choose not only to fight, but also how much to fight, and this concept isn't captured in our simplified War of Attrition.
Unfortunately I was not able to construct a model that satisfied both of these conditions. It quickly became apparent the true extent to which simplified games are contrived to allow for easy calculations. There must exist some combination of game theoretic concepts that will allow me to make relevant predictions and descriptions of the behavior I'm trying to explain, but at the moment I simply lack the resources to find it.














