	Despite the fact that helium is the second most abundant element in the known universe, it is a scarce necessity here on planet Earth. Since the 1920’s the U.S. government has been aware of helium’s strategic value, and has been engaging in legislation and committees devoted to the issue of helium conservation and stewardship. The result of the government’s involvement in the helium industry has been a series of acts and amendments that have shaped and directed the helium market worldwide for nearly a century. Since the first Helium Act of 1925, the uses for helium, and the agents demanding it, have changed drastically. With those changes have come new amendments and acts that are characterized by the helium market of the time. The most recent piece of legislation was the Helium Privatization act of 1996, which directed and required the government’s withdrawal from the helium industry, and the subsequent entry into the market by private enterprises. This act has a specific time table that ends on January 1, 2015, and the future of the Federal Helium program has yet to be decided. With the expiration of the 1996 Helium Privatization Act quickly approaching, our country is facing a crucial decision that will likely have serious, long-term ramifications for the helium market, and all helium reliant industries. With this research, it is our hope that we can contextualize the issues facing the helium industry, and offer some insight on socially optimal, long term conservation of this non-renewable resource.
	In this paper we will detail the specific uses for helium in an attempt to legitimize its pertinence in today’s world. The historic actions and responsibilities of the Federal Helium Program will then be explored in order to contextualize its purpose and intentions for the future. We will then investigate several models and valuation methods for the helium industry so that we can build a basis for the economic value of helium in its present, and possible future states. The involvement of the government as a market power, and as a regulating authority will be addressed as well, because the history of the helium market, and characteristics of exhaustible resource theory necessitate it. By the end of the paper we hope to have built a holistic understanding of the issues facing the Federal Helium Program in the upcoming decades, and to have begun developing a system of regulations or pricing models that best reflect the socially optimal conservation of helium.
Uses for Helium 
	Helium is an inert, noble gas. It is the second lightest element in the universe and has a number of unique chemical, and physical characteristics that make it essential for a variety of uses. Examples of these characteristics are that helium has the lowest boiling point of any element, and is seven times lighter than air. Originally, the U.S. government began stockpiling helium for its use as a “lifting gas” for the Department of Defense. The physical property of helium’s relatively low density, as well as its non-combustibility made it perfect for use in dirigibles and airships. This particular use was quickly made obsolete by the advancement of aeronautic technology, however helium’s usefulness has only grown. Today the largest use of helium is in cryogenics where it was estimated in 2010, to comprise 26% of helium consumption. Liquid helium is currently the coldest known substance, and is used to cool conducting material down past its, “critical temperature”, when it becomes what is known as a superconductor. Superconductors are mainly used in magnetic resonance imaging for the medical industries, and technological research. Other prominent uses include optical fiber and semiconductor manufacturing, rocket and missile purging and pressurizing, and metal welding.
History of the Federal Helium Program
	The U.S. government’s involvement in the helium market began when it started to stockpile helium as a resource for national defense. In 1925 the first helium conservation act was passed that prohibited the sale of helium to non-governmental users. This act stood un-amended for 13 years, as the private sector demand for helium was only just coming into fruition. Then in 1937 the Helium Act Amendment allowed for the government’s commercial sale of helium as the demand for helium in the private sector was increasing. Between 1937 and 1960, the Bureau of mines was the sole producer of helium. 
Private demand for helium escalated drastically throughout the 1950’s and led to the Helium Act Amendment of 1960. It was around this time that new uses for helium arose, including applications in space technology, large scale power generation systems, and nuclear power. Those uses spurred concern about the future supply of helium, and the conservation program under the 1960 amendment authorized the Bureau of Mines to enter into long-term commercial contracts for the purchase of helium from four private companies called Helex companies. The Helex companies were required to sell crude helium to the Bureau of Mines, where it was subsequently stored in a natural gas field in Amarillo, Texas. By 1973, the Interior had purchased about 34 billion cubic feet of helium from private crude helium producers. The intent behind this practice was to prepare for significantly increased demand for helium, but by 1967 it was apparent that the actual demand for helium was falling well short of the amounts predicted at the time the conservation program was established. This led to the termination of Helex contracts in 1973, and the cessation of helium purchases from the Helex companies.
The helium market share for the U.S. government had been declining since the early 1960’s with the introduction of the Helex companies, and in the mid 1970’s, the private market share had overtaken that of the government. Increased privatization of the helium market resulted in more competition and further eroded the market power of the U.S. government. The trend of privatization was further encouraged, and completed with the 1996 Helium Privatization Act.
By 1992 the Helium Fund debt, which consisted of all costs associated with helium production and storage by the Bureau of Mines was estimated at 1.3 billion dollars, of which about 1 billion consisted of interest. The deadline for that debt was September 13, 1995, and the price of helium associated with its timely resolution was 54 times that of the market price for helium in 1992. Realizing the impossibility of their predicament, Congress froze the Helium Fund debt at $1.3 billion, and passed the Helium Privatization act of 1996. The 1996 act drastically changed the direction and incentives for the Federal Helium program. The two key changes was that, Interior was required to offer for sale all but 600 million cubic feet of the crude helium in storage on a straight-line basis, and, Interior was required to set sale prices to cover the crude helium reserve’s operating costs and to produce an amount sufficient to repay the program’s debt. The 1996 Helium Privatization Act stipulates the deadline for the aforementioned conditions as January 1, 2015, which brings us into the present day discussion.
Issues Facing the Helium Program
	As we approach the termination of the 1996 Helium Privatization Act, the future of the helium market, and the Federal Helium program looks dauntingly unclear. The United States Government Accountability Office has been a prominent voice in this discussion for the last two decades, and they have outlined 3 specific questions that they feel represent the most pressing issues facing the Interior. How will the helium program be funded after 2013? At what price should BLM sell its crude helium? How should the helium remaining in storage after 2015 be used?
Possible Models for the Helium Industry
	The market value of helium, and the helium production plateau have been long debated topics with several people proposing different solutions at different times. In 1979 Ronald Braeutigam detailed a method for valuing helium at the wellhead called the workback method. The workback method was introduced because of 2 large difficulties in valuing helium. The first of these difficulties is that helium is a production byproduct from natural gas wells, and as such, its value is directly tied to the value of natural gas. The second difficulty is that the involvement of the Interior in the helium market brought the competitiveness of the market into question, this is why the market price of helium couldn’t be considered its value.
	In 1991, A.M. Hughey created a model for helium based on exhaustible resource theory, but he acknowledged in this model the interdependence between helium and natural gas at the production level. Hughey’s model introduced social and private discount rates into the helium discussion, and he argued that private parties discount the future more heavily than society, leading to rapid helium depletion.
Originally I had planned on focusing on the medical and pharmaceutical industries, but I realize now that that undertaking is beyond me. Instead I will now be focusing on legislation and government policy as it relates to helium conservation. I am finding difficulty understanding a lot of the material on this subject, but the timing of bills and past acts means that right now there is a good deal of conversation concerning my topic.





















References
Public Law 104 -273, 273, (1996). 
Braeutigam, R. R. (1979). The workback method and the value of helium. Unpublished manuscript. 
Cai, Z., Clarke, R. H., Glowacki, B. A., Nuttall, W. J., & Ward, N. (2010). Ongoing ascent to the helium production plateau--insights from system dynamics. Resources Policy, 35(2), 77-89. 
Garcia-Diaz, D. (2013). Helium program: Urgent issues facing BLM's storage and sale of helium reservesUnited States Government Accountability Office. 
Hughey, A. M. (1991). Joint natural resources and government policy: Helium and natural gas. Eastern Economic Journal, 17(1), 80-88. 
Mittal, A. K. (2010). Helium program: Key developments since the early 1990s and future considerationsUnited States Government Accountability Office. 
Nuttall, W. J., Clarke, R. H., & Glowacki, B. A. (2012). Stop sqaundering helium. Nature, 485(7400), 573. 
Steve Mohr, J. W. (2014). Helium production and possible projection. Minerals, 4(1), 130. 

	

	

	
