	I'm Luke; I am a 24 year old, computer science student. Unlike most of you I am a post-bac student, which means I have already graduated with a BA from another university. My degree is in Economics from the University of Puget Sound in Tacoma, which I earned in 2015. This degree proved to be less lucrative than I would have hoped and so I decided to return to school to pursue a more technical, in-demand degree.
	In my free time I enjoy reading, learning new software, shooting, and working out. Recently I have been learning 3ds Max, and reading about the world wars. I am particularly interested in technical and mechanical knowledge of all kinds, and love learning about functional engineering. This is a big part of the reason I am so interested in guns, and why I am interested in joining Formula SAE.
	After I graduate I am hoping on getting a job as a software developer at a large technology company. At the moment the companies I am most interested in are IBM, Boeing, and the DOD. Ideally I would like to work on cutting edge technology for the military, advanced aviation, or research into machine learning, navigation, or artificial intelligence.
	When reading chapters 1 and 14 I felt that there was a particular emphasis on understanding that technical writing is writing with a purpose. The purpose is the most important factor in technical writing and it primarily takes two forms, education, and persuasion; usually concerning technical topics although not necessarily. Chapter 14 goes in depth on how specific language and formatting can help or hurt technical writing in regards to its purpose. I think the most important take away from this chapter is understanding what the specific purpose of the writing is, and even more important, who the intended audience is. The audience of a piece of technical writing drastically changes the way it is written. To a colleague, an upset client, or to a potential client, the same basic information should be written with a very different emphasis, and formatting to achieve maximum effectiveness. 
	I don't have any specific questions about this course.
