
Almost everyone is familiar with the idea, and logic behind buying products in bulk, it’s the reason why stores like Costco and Sam’s Club are so popular. As you buy more and more of any particular item at once, the cost per unit of that item goes down. Say for instance, that you buy a 20 pack of bottled water at your local grocer for ten dollars, you have effectively paid 50 cents for each bottle. Now let’s say you decide to check out Costco first, and find that they are selling ten packs of 20 bottles for 75 dollars. This is of course a better deal, as you are paying only 37.5 cents per bottle. So why do bottled water firms offer discounts for buying in bulk? The answer to that question has two parts, the discount rate, and uncertainty. 
	Now when I say discount rate, I am referring to the amount which future payoffs are discounted over present ones. Theoretically, one dollar received today is worth more than one dollar received a month from now. This is because of how we value time. That same dollar today could be invested in capital or stock to help you earn more money, leaving you with perhaps five dollars in a month instead of one. Additionally, you could die within the next month, and never have the chance to enjoy that dollar that you were promised, so you would have been better off accepting the dollar immediately. This means that the value of something declines, or is discounted, as its expected consumption date is pushed farther into the future. The same logic is behind selling items in bulk. A firm would rather have, or be indifferent to less money today, as opposed to more money at some unspecified time in the future, so they are willing to sell you a year’s worth of bottled water today for a discounted price.
	Most firms, like bottled water companies, do not sell their products to order. In other words, most companies selling commodities produce a whole bunch of their product before each of those products are purchased by consumers, on the assumption that eventually all these units will be sold. However, there are no guarantees that anyone will buy their product at all; this is called uncertainty. Firms are, in a sense, gambling with their money; betting that someone will buy their product so that they don’t lose money producing it. This is where buying products in bulk comes in. If a firm can sell a consumer a large share of their product, then they are facing less uncertainty, because they have less product left for people to not buy. In essence, the firm pays a premium for the certainty that their product will be sold, and this premium shows itself in the form of a discount to the consumer. 
	So now we know why firms are willing to sell us cheap products in bulk, but there is a problem here. This whole model really only works with consumables. As I use a bottle of water, it goes away, never to be drunk again. I’m willing to buy a year’s supply of water because I deplete my stock of water as I drink it, and I can be reasonably sure that I will still be drinking in a year. But what about durable goods? Provided I take good care of my stuff, a year’s worth of headphones is, well, one pair of headphones. Two years’ worth of headphones is still just one pair of headphones, so buying 100 pairs doesn’t save me anything, even if the price per unit is insanely cheap. Consumers have no incentive to buy durable goods in bulk, however, firms that create durable goods still have an incentive to sell their goods in bulk, for the same reasons I listed above. So how do we combine these two, seemingly opposing concepts so that firms can get rid of uncertainty, and I can enjoy cheap stuff?
	Massdrop is a website that combines the practice of bulk buying with durable goods, so that consumers can get lower prices, and firms can sell large quantities of their products at once. Here’s how it works in a nutshell, firms offer, or are asked to offer, a product for sale on the Massdrop website that goes down in price as more people sign on to buy the specified product. Prices start at some point that is relatively close to the manufacturer’s suggested retail price and decrease to some minimum price that is often 20 to 50% cheaper. There is a time window for each drop, and at the end of that window, Massdrop.com puts in an order for the number of products purchased at the lowest achieved price. Individuals who sign on to purchase a drop pay the lowest achieved price no matter what the price was at the time of their signing up. In this way, an online community is used to pool consumers who are all interested in the same product. Using their numbers, they are able to take advantage of an economic concept that is beneficial for everyone involved.
	Massdrop.com makes use of something called positive network externalities. A network externality is a consequence that is realized depending on the number of people in a network. These externalities can be good or bad (positive or negative), but in this case, they are positive. This means that the more people who use Massdrop, the better for everyone. From the consumer’s perspective, more users means an increased chance of having enough people to sign on to a drop to achieve the best savings. From the vendors’ perspective, more users means a higher chance that more people will sign on to their drop, increasing their sales, and decreasing their uncertainty. From Massdrop’s perspective, more users means more drops occurring, from each of which the website takes a cut of the money spent, hence more money. 
	Indeed this whole system only works when lots of people are involved, because the concept of bulk orders requires many units of a product to be sold at once. There used to be a time when buying in bulk meant that an individual had to cough up the cash to buy tens, or even hundreds of a product at once, but with the use of the internet, consumers can now pool their resources in a way that is totally new. Imagine trying to organize 50 people from all across the nation in a time when telephones were the fastest means of communicating, and all to save a couple bucks on a 30 dollar pair of sunglasses. This scenario is patently ridiculous, as one could probably earn well over 30 dollars in that amount of time and effort alone, making the deal worthless. However with online forums, this same organization suddenly becomes near effortless.
	Another important concept to include in this paper is search theory. Massdrop doesn’t do anything that an individual couldn’t accomplish on their own, but it does greatly decrease the cost of doing so. Let me elaborate. In theory, one could scour the internet searching for people who are interested in a product, collect some sort of assurance from each of those people, and then attempt to negotiate a deal with a vendor. However this takes time, so much time, that the savings would likely not be worth the effort. Massdrop.com provides an incredibly easy way to search for these very deals in the form of a voting system. Users of the website suggest the deals that they would like to see, and if enough of them pitch in, the website responds by attempting to negotiate a deal with the vendor, thus reducing search costs of the consumers by providing a forum where everyone already has similar interests. 
	Similarly, Massdrop also provides a way for firms to gain information about demand for a particular product of theirs. Instead of conducting market surveys, or running through the regular gambit of advertising and press release, firms now have the opportunity to see what consumers think about their product at a particular price, hence gaining some insight into their particular market’s demand.
	Right now there isn’t a whole lot of information regarding models for this sort of a scenario. I think that my best bet would be to approach this situation from either the vendor side, or the consumer side. Either way though, my model will likely include concepts from both search theory and network externalities. So far this has been a very difficult problem for me to conceptualize with a model.
